Welcome back.
Let's implement def for search using in order, pre-order and post order.
And we're going to start off with in order first.
Now let's name this.
Let's call it depth first.
Traversal or search in this case and we'll say in order.
Now within here, we're going to use a recursion because, well, most of the time depth first search
is implemented using recursion because it's quite simple to do so, as you'll see.
But if you remember from implementing breath for search with recursion because we're going to be calling
this function over and over, we can't just declare variables inside of it because they'll be reset.
So we're going to do the same thing as we did here.
But to keep things clean and to also show you how different ordered deaf research is work because we're
going to have three of them we're going to have in order.
Post order and pre order.
I'm going to create three separate functions down here describing these.
So all I'm going to say in here is we're going to have return to reverse in order to function.
This will be our recursive function.
And DFES in order method simply returns whatever gives us this result.
So in our case we're going to add this dot root start off with our root node and we're going to give
it a list where our answers will be entered.
And we're going to do the same thing for post order and pre-order.
Just naming them there are appropriate ways.
So let's write the first function.
Chivas.
Oh, if I can spell traverse, post order and preorder.
There you go.
Let's start off with the first one.
It's going to be a function called Traverse in order that we created up above.
That's going to get a node.
And some sort of data or we can call it list in this case.
Now remember that in order is going to give us the list of nodes in order, in sorted order.
If we look at our tree, we want to ideally have one, four, six, nine, 15, 20, one, 70.
And the way we go about doing that is, well, first of all, we're going to check, hey, does the.
Node have a left child if it does.
Well, then we're going to traverse all the way down using recursion to node dot left.
And pass data.
Again.
I know recursion can be tough to grasp at first, but all we're saying here is that if the node, especially
the root node, when we first start off, if it has a left child, which nine does then.
Traverse all the way down.
Keep going left.
It's going to call this function and it's going to keep going left until the node has no more children
and we end up at one.
When we end up at one I want you to well list dot push our answer node dot value.
So once there's no more node left, that is, we're at one.
Then go to the next step, which is to push this value one to the list.
After that, we're going to do the same thing we did up here to the right.
That is, we want to go to check the right now and say, hey, go all the way to the right until there's
no more children.
And now we have six.
And we go through this function once again when we have six, there's no left child.
And it's going to push the current node value, which is six to the rate.
So let's actually console.log this.
And by the way, we want to return.
Remember, we want to return the list at the end.
So I'm going to console.log.
Node dot value.
And if I click run here or they make sure this works, so I'm going to say Traverse in order.
I'm going to comment out these two.
And say three dot DH FS in order.
And we're just going to run this.
If I were on this.
Who I get data is not defined because.
Well, this has to be list over here.
Pass the list.
There you go.
Let's run.
And look at that.
We have 1469, 15, 2170 and we see here the path that we took because I console locked here.
Right.
We have nine for one, then six.
Then we go back to 2015, then 170.
But because we're pushing our answers to the list after we've verified the left nodes and traversed
all the way down, the lowest numbers get put into the list.
Now, the beauty of this is that implementing the other two now becomes extremely easy because they're
very similar.
Just the order changes.
So the next one, which is Traverse, let's say.
Pre-order.
The only difference now is that, well, we've got to make sure that we recursively call the right name.
The only difference is that with pre order we want to push at the very beginning.
Before we get to the very left note because remember in a pre order traversal we go 9416 then 2015 170.
We start with the parent first and that's the order.
So we push the parent first, which is nine, then we grab four, then one, then we get six, then
20 and 15, then 170.
Let's see if that works.
I'm going to change this to pre order.
Make sure I spell that right.
Pre-order.
Perfect.
And then I could run.
And look at that.
We went 9416 2015 170 in that order and the list.
Now here you can pause the video and see if you can implement the last one yourself.
It should be fairly simple, right?
All right.
I'm going to get going.
The post order is going to be very similar.
Well, say Traverse.
Post order will have the list push at the very end.
And why is that?
Because we check one six.
The left and the right.
And then the top four, then 15, one, 17, 20, then nine.
So the order, as the name suggests, is post is at the end.
So if I change this to post order now.
And I hit run.
We have the wrong order because I need to make sure I change the names.
So it's recursive.
So we say traverse horse oder, post order, post order, not pre order.
And if I had run, that's much better.
We go 941.
And we start adding this to the list.
I go 164, then 15, 170, 20, and then nine.
And if we print all of these out.
I click run.
Well, let's remove the console logs from here.
And just console.log each one of these.
If I had run.
There's our logs.
We have the.
Post order.
We have the pre order and then we have the in order.
All of them are depth for searches just on in different orders.
Now I'll leave the show for you to explore here because it is recursion.
It might take a bit of time to get your mind wrapped around it, but you see here that it wasn't that
difficult.
We implemented breath for search both iteratively and recursively, and we also use depth for a search
in order, post order and pre-order.
And if you think about it, it starts to become more and more clear, especially when it comes to death
research.
All we're doing is we're checking the left element and the right element or the right note.
So that is the left reference and right reference of each note.
And sure, we're doing these actions in different order sometimes depending on which ordering strategy
we choose.
But we're still doing the same three things.
We're checking the left, checking the right, or we're just pushing a node to our list, to our answer.
And for those of you that may have realized, we're using a stack data structure right here with the
recursion, each of these functions are added to our call stack and we'll start to return as they reach
the end.
That is, there's no more left and right children.
And this is important to understand, because it shows the space, complexity of depth for search,
the amount of space that we need in terms of memory, unlike breath for search, which used the Q.
The height of the tree will tell us how much memory we'll need because the height of the tree will match
the deepest recursive function, and that's what's going to be added to the stack as memory.
So our memory consumption is o of height of the tree.
Which will give us the worst case scenario when using depth for a search.
So now that you understand better how these.
Searches or traversal work.
I encourage you to go step by step code your own.
See if you can add this to your tree data structure as well.
Because the beauty is once you know how this works.
You also just learn how to traverse through a graph.
Congratulations.
And I'll see you in the next video.